README.md, before:

nodesu!
======

A library for [osu!](http://osu.ppy.sh) (its API and chat services), written for and in [node.js](https://nodejs.org/).
(node + osu = nodesu!)

## Setup for your project
```
# In your project directory
# from npmjs
$ npm install --save nodesu

# or from master repo
$ npm install --save nicholastay/nodesu
```

## Documentation / Usage
### osu! Chat (Bancho IRC)
Basically a wrapper for standard IRC connections to osu!bancho chat.

Implemented with the `irc` module on npm, you can read more about it on that page.

#### Main functions
##### new Osu.chat()
```javascript
var Osu = require('nodesu');

var osuChat = new Osu.chat({
  username: 'osu! username',
  password: 'osu! IRC password (https://osu.ppy.sh/p/irc)'
});
```
Start by requiring the module, then defining your username and IRC password

(Other variables able to be passed are `server` (str), `port` (int), and `channels` (array).)

##### connect
```javascript
osuChat.connect();
```
Connects to osu! chat with the credentials defined above.

#### Events
Events are standard node.js `events.EventEmitter` events. They can be caught with `.on`. Example can be found in `examples/chat_client.js`.

Events include:
* `connected`: connected to IRC server
* `error`: (important) catching errors if IRC or the client throw any.
* `message`: on any message, private or channel
* `action`: on a `/me` message
* `pm`: on a private message

---------------------------------------

### osu! API
More information on API returns and how some parameters work can be found at the [official osu! API GitHub wiki page](https://github.com/ppy/osu-api/wiki). 
#### Main functions
(Any argument not stated as optional should be required)

Promises are implemented with Q and can be used, but callbacks can also be used as below.

Callbacks: All callbacks are returned with the first argument as `err`, returns truthy if has an error, and the second argument is the `response`, which returns whatever the API returns.

##### new Osu.api()
```javascript
var Osu = require('nodesu');

var osuApi = new Osu.api({
  apiKey: 'your_key_here'
});
```
Get started by requiring the module and defining your API key.

(Another variable able to be passed is `uri`, which is set default to `https://osu.ppy.sh/api`. This can be set to elsewhere if it changes in the future)

##### raw
```javascript
osuApi.raw(endpoint, params, callback);
```
Sends a request to the osu! API with your parameters
* `endpoint`: A string containing the endpoint, e.g. `'/get_user'`
* `params`: An object containing the parameters to be passed, e.g. `{u: 'Nexerq', m: '0'} // which turns into ?u=Nexerq&m=0`
* `callback`: A function to be used as a callback.

A further example can be found in `examples/raw_request.js`.

##### getBeatmaps
```javascript
osuApi.getBeatmaps(object, mode, callback);
```
The callback returns with a error parameter and a response parameter. Upon a successful response, it should return with an array of beatmaps.
* `object`: An object, that can be easily constructed with the `beatmap` helper function (discussed below).
* `mode`: (optional, if so use `osuApi.mode.all`) A string, that can be easily constructed with thhe `mode` helper function.
* `callback`: A function to be used as a callback.

A further example can be found in `examples/beatmap_request.js`.

##### getScores
```javascript
osuApi.getScores(beatmap_object, user_object, mode, callback);
```
The callback returns with a error parameter and a response parameter. Upon a successful response, it should return with an array of scores for the chosen beatmap.
* `beatmap_object`: A object, that can be easily constructed with the `beatmap` helper function. Only `.byMapID` can be used as this API call can only take beatmap IDs.
* `user_object`: (optional, if so use `osuApi.user.all`) A object, that can be easily constructed with the `user` helper function.
* `mode`: (optional, if so use `osuApi.mode.all`) A string, that can be again easily constructed with a helper function.
* `callback`: A function to be used as a callback.

A further example can be found in `examples/beatmap_request.js`.

##### getUser
```javascript
osuApi.getUser(object, mode, callback);
```
The callback returns with a error parameter and a response parameter. Upon a successful response, it should return with an object of the user.
* `object`: An object, that can be easily constructed with the `user` convenience function (discussed below).
* `mode`: (optional, if so use `osuApi.mode.all`) A string, that can be easily constructed with the helper function.
* `callback`: A function to be used as a callback.

A further example can be found in `examples/user_request.js`.

##### getUserBest
```javascript
osuApi.getUserBest(object, mode, callback);
```
The callback returns with a error parameter and a response parameter. Upon a successful response, it should return with an array of beatmaps containing the user's best scores.
* `object`: An object, that can be easily constructed with the `user` helper function (discussed below).
* `mode`: (optional, if so use `osuApi.mode.all`) A string, that can be easily constructed with thhe `mode` helper function.
* `callback`: A function to be used as a callback.

A further example can be found in `examples/user_request.js`.

##### getUserRecent
```javascript
osuApi.getUserBest(object, mode, callback);
```
The callback returns with a error parameter and a response parameter. Upon a successful response, it should return with an array of beatmaps containing the user's most recent scores. It may throw an error if there are no scores in there, as they may not have played recently.
* `object`: An object, that can be easily constructed with the `user` helper function (discussed below).
* `mode`: (optional, if so use `osuApi.mode.all`) A string, that can be easily constructed with thhe `mode` helper function.
* `callback`: A function to be used as a callback.

A further example can be found in `examples/user_request.js`.

##### getMatch
```javascript
osuApi.getUserBest(id, callback);
```
The callback returns with a error parameter and a response parameter. Upon a successful response, it should return with an array with a multiplayer match's data.
* `id`: The multiplayer match ID (can be expressed in integer or string)
* `callback`: A function to be used as a callback.

##### getReplay
```javascript
osuApi.getScores(beatmap_object, user_object, mode, callback);
```
The callback returns with a error parameter and a response parameter. Upon a successful response, it should return with the replay data encoded in base64 by the server.
* `beatmap_object`: A object, that can be easily constructed with the `beatmap` helper function. Only a beatmap ID can be used.
* `user_object`: A object, that can be easily constructed with the `user` helper function.
* `mode`: A string, that can be again easily constructed with the `mode` helper function.
* `callback`: A function to be used as a callback.


#### Some helper convenience/readability functions/variables
##### beatmap
```javascript
osuApi.beatmap.*(id, limit)
```
The * can be replaced with:
* `byMapset`: lookup beatmap by mapset
* `byMapID`: lookup beatmap by beatmap ID
* `byUserID`: lookup beatmap by user ID
* `byUsername`: lookup beatmap by username
* `byHash`: lookup beatmap by hash (refer to the API wiki for details)
* `byLetter`: lookup beatmap by letter (s, b) (any letter the API can take for a beatmap)

The other variables:
* `id`: An integer or string, that corresponds to the ID of the map/mapset or it can be a username/userid/hash
* `limit`: (optional) Limit the beatmaps that are returned

This function/variable can also be used to look up things that are returned by the API. For example, the API returns and ID for approval status. You can use `osuApi.beatmap.approvalStatus[ID]` to look up the ID, for example, `osuApi.beatmap.approvalStatus[-1]` returns with a string `'WIP'`. Similar lookups can be used with `beatmap.genre` and `beatmap.language`.


##### score
```javascript
osuApi.score.all
```
This just returns `null`, which can be used to return all scores when using `getScores`. It is just a convenience and ease of reading function. Refer to `examples/scores_request.js` for a better indication.


#### user
```javascript
osuApi.user.*(id, data)
```
The `*` can be replaced with:
* `byUserID`: lookup user by user ID
* `byUsername`: lookup user by username
* `all`: returns `null` for `getScores` convenience

The other variables
* `id`: An integer or string that is the user ID/username
* `data`: For `getUser` this is the `event_days` parameter, and this limits the number of days events are grabbed. For any other function this is the `limit` parameter, and this basically limits how many results are returned. (more info on the official wiki)


#### mode
```javascript
osuApi.mode.*
```
The `*` can be replaced with (most are self-explanatory):
* `standard`
* `taiko`
* `ctb`
* `mania`
* `all`
* `default`

This is just for convenience instead of knowing the numbers, as well as for readability. `all` and `default` both return `null`, refer to examples or the module itself to understand usage better.

It can also be used in reverse, for example `osuApi.mode[0]` will return a string with `'osu!standard'`. This is useful if an API call returns with an ID and you want to look up what the ID means.



## Contributing / Setup for development
To contribute, you should fork this project then I will review and accept as required pull requests.
```
# Fork the project first
$ git clone https://github.com/_name_/nodesu.git && cd nodesu
$ npm install
# Then shoot the PR through if you work on it and do something cool!
```

Commit message:

Add rate-limiting, enabled by default to 600/min

README.md, after:

nodesu!
======

A library for [osu!](http://osu.ppy.sh) (its API and chat services), written for and in [node.js](https://nodejs.org/).
(node + osu = nodesu!)

## Setup for your project
```
# In your project directory
# from npmjs
$ npm install --save nodesu

# or from master repo
$ npm install --save nicholastay/nodesu
```

## Documentation / Usage
### osu! Chat (Bancho IRC)
Basically a wrapper for standard IRC connections to osu!bancho chat.

Implemented with the `irc` module on npm, you can read more about it on that page.

#### Main functions
##### new Osu.chat()
```javascript
var Osu = require('nodesu');

var osuChat = new Osu.chat({
  username: 'osu! username',
  password: 'osu! IRC password (https://osu.ppy.sh/p/irc)'
});
```
Start by requiring the module, then defining your username and IRC password

(Other variables able to be passed are `server` (str), `port` (int), and `channels` (array).)

##### connect
```javascript
osuChat.connect();
```
Connects to osu! chat with the credentials defined above.

#### Events
Events are standard node.js `events.EventEmitter` events. They can be caught with `.on`. Example can be found in `examples/chat_client.js`.

Events include:
* `connected`: connected to IRC server
* `error`: (important) catching errors if IRC or the client throw any.
* `message`: on any message, private or channel
* `action`: on a `/me` message
* `pm`: on a private message

---------------------------------------

### osu! API
More information on API returns and how some parameters work can be found at the [official osu! API GitHub wiki page](https://github.com/ppy/osu-api/wiki).
#### Main functions
(Any argument not stated as optional should be required)

Promises are implemented with Q and can be used, but callbacks can also be used as below.

Callbacks: All callbacks are returned with the first argument as `err`, returns truthy if has an error, and the second argument is the `response`, which returns whatever the API returns.

##### new Osu.api()
```javascript
var Osu = require('nodesu');

var osuApi = new Osu.api({
  apiKey: 'your_key_here'
});
```
Get started by requiring the module and defining your API key.

You can also pass other variables such as `uri`, which is set default to `https://osu.ppy.sh/api`, and `reqsPerMinute` which is set default to 600. Set `reqsPerMinute` to null to disable the rate-limiter.

##### raw
```javascript
osuApi.raw(endpoint, params, callback);
```
Sends a request to the osu! API with your parameters
* `endpoint`: A string containing the endpoint, e.g. `'/get_user'`
* `params`: An object containing the parameters to be passed, e.g. `{u: 'Nexerq', m: '0'} // which turns into ?u=Nexerq&m=0`
* `callback`: A function to be used as a callback.

A further example can be found in `examples/raw_request.js`.

##### getBeatmaps
```javascript
osuApi.getBeatmaps(object, mode, callback);
```
The callback returns with a error parameter and a response parameter. Upon a successful response, it should return with an array of beatmaps.
* `object`: An object, that can be easily constructed with the `beatmap` helper function (discussed below).
* `mode`: (optional, if so use `osuApi.mode.all`) A string, that can be easily constructed with thhe `mode` helper function.
* `callback`: A function to be used as a callback.

A further example can be found in `examples/beatmap_request.js`.

##### getScores
```javascript
osuApi.getScores(beatmap_object, user_object, mode, callback);
```
The callback returns with a error parameter and a response parameter. Upon a successful response, it should return with an array of scores for the chosen beatmap.
* `beatmap_object`: A object, that can be easily constructed with the `beatmap` helper function. Only `.byMapID` can be used as this API call can only take beatmap IDs.
* `user_object`: (optional, if so use `osuApi.user.all`) A object, that can be easily constructed with the `user` helper function.
* `mode`: (optional, if so use `osuApi.mode.all`) A string, that can be again easily constructed with a helper function.
* `callback`: A function to be used as a callback.

A further example can be found in `examples/beatmap_request.js`.

##### getUser
```javascript
osuApi.getUser(object, mode, callback);
```
The callback returns with a error parameter and a response parameter. Upon a successful response, it should return with an object of the user.
* `object`: An object, that can be easily constructed with the `user` convenience function (discussed below).
* `mode`: (optional, if so use `osuApi.mode.all`) A string, that can be easily constructed with the helper function.
* `callback`: A function to be used as a callback.

A further example can be found in `examples/user_request.js`.

##### getUserBest
```javascript
osuApi.getUserBest(object, mode, callback);
```
The callback returns with a error parameter and a response parameter. Upon a successful response, it should return with an array of beatmaps containing the user's best scores.
* `object`: An object, that can be easily constructed with the `user` helper function (discussed below).
* `mode`: (optional, if so use `osuApi.mode.all`) A string, that can be easily constructed with thhe `mode` helper function.
* `callback`: A function to be used as a callback.

A further example can be found in `examples/user_request.js`.

##### getUserRecent
```javascript
osuApi.getUserBest(object, mode, callback);
```
The callback returns with a error parameter and a response parameter. Upon a successful response, it should return with an array of beatmaps containing the user's most recent scores. It may throw an error if there are no scores in there, as they may not have played recently.
* `object`: An object, that can be easily constructed with the `user` helper function (discussed below).
* `mode`: (optional, if so use `osuApi.mode.all`) A string, that can be easily constructed with thhe `mode` helper function.
* `callback`: A function to be used as a callback.

A further example can be found in `examples/user_request.js`.

##### getMatch
```javascript
osuApi.getUserBest(id, callback);
```
The callback returns with a error parameter and a response parameter. Upon a successful response, it should return with an array with a multiplayer match's data.
* `id`: The multiplayer match ID (can be expressed in integer or string)
* `callback`: A function to be used as a callback.

##### getReplay
```javascript
osuApi.getScores(beatmap_object, user_object, mode, callback);
```
The callback returns with a error parameter and a response parameter. Upon a successful response, it should return with the replay data encoded in base64 by the server.
* `beatmap_object`: A object, that can be easily constructed with the `beatmap` helper function. Only a beatmap ID can be used.
* `user_object`: A object, that can be easily constructed with the `user` helper function.
* `mode`: A string, that can be again easily constructed with the `mode` helper function.
* `callback`: A function to be used as a callback.


#### Some helper convenience/readability functions/variables
##### beatmap
```javascript
osuApi.beatmap.*(id, limit)
```
The * can be replaced with:
* `byMapset`: lookup beatmap by mapset
* `byMapID`: lookup beatmap by beatmap ID
* `byUserID`: lookup beatmap by user ID
* `byUsername`: lookup beatmap by username
* `byHash`: lookup beatmap by hash (refer to the API wiki for details)
* `byLetter`: lookup beatmap by letter (s, b) (any letter the API can take for a beatmap)

The other variables:
* `id`: An integer or string, that corresponds to the ID of the map/mapset or it can be a username/userid/hash
* `limit`: (optional) Limit the beatmaps that are returned

This function/variable can also be used to look up things that are returned by the API. For example, the API returns and ID for approval status. You can use `osuApi.beatmap.approvalStatus[ID]` to look up the ID, for example, `osuApi.beatmap.approvalStatus[-1]` returns with a string `'WIP'`. Similar lookups can be used with `beatmap.genre` and `beatmap.language`.


##### score
```javascript
osuApi.score.all
```
This just returns `null`, which can be used to return all scores when using `getScores`. It is just a convenience and ease of reading function. Refer to `examples/scores_request.js` for a better indication.


#### user
```javascript
osuApi.user.*(id, data)
```
The `*` can be replaced with:
* `byUserID`: lookup user by user ID
* `byUsername`: lookup user by username
* `all`: returns `null` for `getScores` convenience

The other variables
* `id`: An integer or string that is the user ID/username
* `data`: For `getUser` this is the `event_days` parameter, and this limits the number of days events are grabbed. For any other function this is the `limit` parameter, and this basically limits how many results are returned. (more info on the official wiki)


#### mode
```javascript
osuApi.mode.*
```
The `*` can be replaced with (most are self-explanatory):
* `standard`
* `taiko`
* `ctb`
* `mania`
* `all`
* `default`

This is just for convenience instead of knowing the numbers, as well as for readability. `all` and `default` both return `null`, refer to examples or the module itself to understand usage better.

It can also be used in reverse, for example `osuApi.mode[0]` will return a string with `'osu!standard'`. This is useful if an API call returns with an ID and you want to look up what the ID means.



## Contributing / Setup for development
To contribute, you should fork this project then I will review and accept as required pull requests.
```
# Fork the project first
$ git clone https://github.com/_name_/nodesu.git && cd nodesu
$ npm install
# Then shoot the PR through if you work on it and do something cool!
```
